docs/OCI Virtual Machine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana.md, before:

# OCI Virtual Machine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana   

## Background

Grafana is a popular technology that makes it easy to visualize metrics. The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana is used to extend Grafana by adding OCI as a data source. The plugin enables you to visualize metrics related to a number of OCI resources: Compute, Networking, Storage, and custom metrics. 

This walkthrough is intended for use by people who would like to deploy Grafana and the OCI Data Source for Grafana on a virtual machine in OCI. 

## Create the Grafana Environment in OCI 

Provision an Oracle Linux [virtual machine](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Compute/Concepts/computeoverview.htm) in OCI connected to a [Virtual Cloud Network](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Tasks/managingVCNs.htm) with access to the public internet. If you do not already have access to a Virtual Cloud Network with access to the public internet you can navigate to **Virtual Cloud Networks** under **Networking** and click **Create Virtual Cloud Network**. Choosing the `CREATE VIRTUAL CLOUD NETWORK PLUS RELATED RESOURCES` option will result in a VCN with an Internet Routing Gateway and Route Tables configured for access to the public internet. Three subnets will be created: one in each availability domain in the region.

After creating your VM, the next step is to create a [dynamic group](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Tasks/managingdynamicgroups.htm) used to group virtual machine or bare metal compute instances as “principals” (similar to user groups). 

   ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 4.01.34 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%204.01.34%20PM.png)

Next, create a [policy](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Concepts/policygetstarted.htm) named “grafana_policy” in the root compartment of your tenancy to permit instances in the dynamic group to make API calls against Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services. Add the following policy statements:

* `allow group grafana to read metrics in tenancy`
* `allow group grafana to read compartments in tenancy`

   ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 4.01.47 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%204.01.47%20PM.png)

## Install Grafana and the OCI Data Source for Grafana Plugin 

To [install the data source](https://grafana.com/plugins/oci-datasource/installation) make sure you are running [Grafana 3.0](https://grafana.com/get) or later. Use the [grafana-cli tool](http://docs.grafana.org/plugins/installation/) to install the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana from the command line:

```
grafana-cli plugins install oci-datasource
```

The plugin will be installed into your Grafana plugins directory, which by default is located at /var/lib/grafana/plugins. [Here is more information on the CLI tool](http://docs.grafana.org/plugins/installation/). Alternatively, you can manually download the .zip file and unpack it into your /grafana/plugins directory. To do so, change to the Grafana plugins directory: `cd /usr/local/var/lib/grafana/plugins`. Download the OCI Grafana Plugin: wget `https://grafana.com/api/plugins/oci-datasource/versions/1.0.0/download`. Create a directory and install the plugin: `mkdir oci && tar -C oci -xvf plugin.tar` and then remove the tarball: `rm plugin.tar`. 

To start the Grafana server, run: `sudo systemctl start grafana-server`. 


## Configure Grafana

The next step is to configure the plugin. To find the IP address of the newly-created instance, navigate to Compute > Instances > [Your Instance]. The Public IP address is listed under the Primary VNIC Information section. Connect to Grafana via port forward by running `ssh opc@[Instance Public IP] -L 3000:localhost:3000`. 

Navigate to the Grafana homepage at http://localhost:3000.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.23.46 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.23.46%20PM.png)

Log in with the default username `admin` and the password `admin`. You will be prompted to change your password. Click **Skip** or **Save** to continue. ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.23.54 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.23.54%20PM.png)

On the Home Dashboard click the gear icon on the left side of the page.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.02 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.02%20PM.png)

Click **Add data source**.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.13 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.13%20PM.png)

 Choose **oracle-oci-datasource** as your data source type.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.24 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.17%20PM.png)

Fill in your **Tenancy OCID**, **Default Region**, and **Environment**. Your **Default region** is the same as your home region listed in the **Tenancy Details** page. For **Environment** choose **OCI Instance**. 

Click **Save & Test** to return to the home dashboard.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.25.33 PM](images/Screen_Shot_2019-02-08_at_10.19.56_AM.png)

## Next Steps

Check out how to use the newly installed and configured plugin in our [Using Grafana with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source](docs/Using%20Grafana%20with%20the%20Oracle%20Cloud%20Infrastructure%20Data%20Source.md) walkthrough.

Commit message:

Update OCI Virtual Machine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana.md Adding link to monitoring service docs

docs/OCI Virtual Machine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana.md, after:

# OCI Virtual Machine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana   

## Background

Grafana is a popular technology that makes it easy to visualize metrics. The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana is used to extend Grafana by adding OCI as a data source. The plugin enables you to visualize metrics related to a number of OCI resources: Compute, Networking, Storage, and custom metrics. 

This walkthrough is intended for use by people who would like to deploy Grafana and the OCI Data Source for Grafana on a virtual machine in OCI. 

Make sure you have access to the [Monitoring Service](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Monitoring/Concepts/monitoringoverview.htm) and that [metrics have been enabled](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Compute/Tasks/enablingmonitoring.htm) for the resources you are trying to monitor.

## Create the Grafana Environment in OCI 

Provision an Oracle Linux [virtual machine](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Compute/Concepts/computeoverview.htm) in OCI connected to a [Virtual Cloud Network](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Tasks/managingVCNs.htm) with access to the public internet. If you do not already have access to a Virtual Cloud Network with access to the public internet you can navigate to **Virtual Cloud Networks** under **Networking** and click **Create Virtual Cloud Network**. Choosing the `CREATE VIRTUAL CLOUD NETWORK PLUS RELATED RESOURCES` option will result in a VCN with an Internet Routing Gateway and Route Tables configured for access to the public internet. Three subnets will be created: one in each availability domain in the region.

After creating your VM, the next step is to create a [dynamic group](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Tasks/managingdynamicgroups.htm) used to group virtual machine or bare metal compute instances as “principals” (similar to user groups). 

   ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 4.01.34 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%204.01.34%20PM.png)

Next, create a [policy](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Concepts/policygetstarted.htm) named “grafana_policy” in the root compartment of your tenancy to permit instances in the dynamic group to make API calls against Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services. Add the following policy statements:

* `allow group grafana to read metrics in tenancy`
* `allow group grafana to read compartments in tenancy`

   ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 4.01.47 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%204.01.47%20PM.png)

## Install Grafana and the OCI Data Source for Grafana Plugin 

To [install the data source](https://grafana.com/plugins/oci-datasource/installation) make sure you are running [Grafana 3.0](https://grafana.com/get) or later. Use the [grafana-cli tool](http://docs.grafana.org/plugins/installation/) to install the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana from the command line:

```
grafana-cli plugins install oci-datasource
```

The plugin will be installed into your Grafana plugins directory, which by default is located at /var/lib/grafana/plugins. [Here is more information on the CLI tool](http://docs.grafana.org/plugins/installation/). Alternatively, you can manually download the .zip file and unpack it into your /grafana/plugins directory. To do so, change to the Grafana plugins directory: `cd /usr/local/var/lib/grafana/plugins`. Download the OCI Grafana Plugin: wget `https://grafana.com/api/plugins/oci-datasource/versions/1.0.0/download`. Create a directory and install the plugin: `mkdir oci && tar -C oci -xvf plugin.tar` and then remove the tarball: `rm plugin.tar`. 

To start the Grafana server, run: `sudo systemctl start grafana-server`. 


## Configure Grafana

The next step is to configure the plugin. To find the IP address of the newly-created instance, navigate to Compute > Instances > [Your Instance]. The Public IP address is listed under the Primary VNIC Information section. Connect to Grafana via port forward by running `ssh opc@[Instance Public IP] -L 3000:localhost:3000`. 

Navigate to the Grafana homepage at http://localhost:3000.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.23.46 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.23.46%20PM.png)

Log in with the default username `admin` and the password `admin`. You will be prompted to change your password. Click **Skip** or **Save** to continue. ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.23.54 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.23.54%20PM.png)

On the Home Dashboard click the gear icon on the left side of the page.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.02 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.02%20PM.png)

Click **Add data source**.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.13 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.13%20PM.png)

 Choose **oracle-oci-datasource** as your data source type.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.24 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.17%20PM.png)

Fill in your **Tenancy OCID**, **Default Region**, and **Environment**. Your **Default region** is the same as your home region listed in the **Tenancy Details** page. For **Environment** choose **OCI Instance**. 

Click **Save & Test** to return to the home dashboard.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.25.33 PM](images/Screen_Shot_2019-02-08_at_10.19.56_AM.png)

## Next Steps

Check out how to use the newly installed and configured plugin in our [Using Grafana with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source](docs/Using%20Grafana%20with%20the%20Oracle%20Cloud%20Infrastructure%20Data%20Source.md) walkthrough.
