docs/Oracle Kubernetes Engine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana.md, before:

# Oracle Kubernetes Engine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana

## Pre-requisites:

* [Oracle Container Engine for Kubernetes (OKE)](http://www.oracle.com/webfolder/technetwork/tutorials/obe/oci/oke-full/index.html)
* [Kubectl 1.7.4](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
* [Helm](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm#install) 

## Background

Grafana is a popular technology that makes it easy to visualize metrics. The [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana](https://grafana.com/plugins/oci-datasource) is used to extend Grafana by adding OCI as a data source. The plugin enables you to visualize metrics related to a number of OCI resources: Compute, Networking, Storage, and custom metrics.

This walkthrough is intended for use by people who would like to deploy Grafana and the OCI Data Source for Grafana on a Kubernetes environment.

## Configuring the OCI Identity policies

In order to use the the OCI Data Source for Grafana on OKE, the first step is to create a [dynamic group](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Tasks/managingdynamicgroups.htm) used to group virtual machine or bare metal compute instances as “principals” (similar to user groups). Create a dynamic group that corresponds to all of your OKE worker nodes:

   ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 4.01.34 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%204.01.34%20PM.png)

Next, create a [policy](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Concepts/policygetstarted.htm) named “grafana_policy” in the root compartment of your tenancy to permit instances in the dynamic group to make API calls against Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services. Add the following policy statements:

* `allow group grafana to read metrics in tenancy`
* `allow group grafana to read compartments in tenancy`

   ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 4.01.47 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%204.01.47%20PM.png)


## The Grafana Helm chart

Next, we are going to install the stable Helm chart for Grafana. We will do this in two parts: First, update the stable repository by running: `helm repo update`

Next, install the stable chart for Grafana. To do this run: `helm install --name grafana stable/grafana`

We can now make a change to the deployment that was created for Grafana by running `kubectl edit deployment grafana`, and adding an additional environment variable to the Grafana contianer which will download the plugin. After saving the deployment, the changes will be reflected with a new pod.

```
        - name: GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS
          value: oci-datasource
```

## Accessing Grafana

To see if everything is working correctly, access Grafana using Kubernetes port-forwarding. To do this run: `export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace default -l "app=grafana,release=grafana" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")`

Followed by: `kubectl --namespace default port-forward $POD_NAME 3000`

You can obtain the password for the admin user by running: `kubectl get secret --namespace default grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo`

## Configure Grafana

The next step is to configure the plugin. Navigate to the Grafana homepage at `http://localhost:3000`

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.23.46 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.23.46%20PM.png)

Log in with the default username `admin` and the password you obtained from the kubectl command from the previous section.

On the Home Dashboard click the gear icon on the left side of the page.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.02 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.02%20PM.png)

Click **Add data source**.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.13 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.13%20PM.png)

 Choose **oracle-oci-datasource** as your data source type.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.24 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.17%20PM.png)

Fill in your **Tenancy OCID**, **Default Region**, and **Environment**. Your **Default region** is the same as your home region listed in the **Tenancy Details** page. For **Environment** choose **OCI Instance**. 

Click **Save & Test** to return to the home dashboard.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.25.33 PM](images/Screen_Shot_2019-02-08_at_10.19.56_AM.png)

## Next Steps

Check out how to use the newly installed and configured plugin in our [Using Grafana with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source](docs/Using%20Grafana%20with%20the%20Oracle%20Cloud%20Infrastructure%20Data%20Source.md) walkthrough.

Commit message:

Update Oracle Kubernetes Engine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana.md Added links to monitoring service docs

docs/Oracle Kubernetes Engine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana.md, after:

# Oracle Kubernetes Engine Installation - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana

## Pre-requisites:

* [Oracle Container Engine for Kubernetes (OKE)](http://www.oracle.com/webfolder/technetwork/tutorials/obe/oci/oke-full/index.html)
* [Kubectl 1.7.4](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
* [Helm](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm#install) 

## Background

Grafana is a popular technology that makes it easy to visualize metrics. The [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source for Grafana](https://grafana.com/plugins/oci-datasource) is used to extend Grafana by adding OCI as a data source. The plugin enables you to visualize metrics related to a number of OCI resources: Compute, Networking, Storage, and custom metrics.

This walkthrough is intended for use by people who would like to deploy Grafana and the OCI Data Source for Grafana on a Kubernetes environment.

Make sure you have access to the [Monitoring Service](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Monitoring/Concepts/monitoringoverview.htm) and that [metrics have been enabled](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Compute/Tasks/enablingmonitoring.htm) for the resources you are trying to monitor.

## Configuring the OCI Identity policies

In order to use the the OCI Data Source for Grafana on OKE, the first step is to create a [dynamic group](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Tasks/managingdynamicgroups.htm) used to group virtual machine or bare metal compute instances as “principals” (similar to user groups). Create a dynamic group that corresponds to all of your OKE worker nodes:

   ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 4.01.34 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%204.01.34%20PM.png)

Next, create a [policy](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Concepts/policygetstarted.htm) named “grafana_policy” in the root compartment of your tenancy to permit instances in the dynamic group to make API calls against Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services. Add the following policy statements:

* `allow group grafana to read metrics in tenancy`
* `allow group grafana to read compartments in tenancy`

   ![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 4.01.47 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%204.01.47%20PM.png)


## The Grafana Helm chart

Next, we are going to install the stable Helm chart for Grafana. We will do this in two parts: First, update the stable repository by running: `helm repo update`

Next, install the stable chart for Grafana. To do this run: `helm install --name grafana stable/grafana`

We can now make a change to the deployment that was created for Grafana by running `kubectl edit deployment grafana`, and adding an additional environment variable to the Grafana contianer which will download the plugin. After saving the deployment, the changes will be reflected with a new pod.

```
        - name: GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS
          value: oci-datasource
```

## Accessing Grafana

To see if everything is working correctly, access Grafana using Kubernetes port-forwarding. To do this run: `export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace default -l "app=grafana,release=grafana" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")`

Followed by: `kubectl --namespace default port-forward $POD_NAME 3000`

You can obtain the password for the admin user by running: `kubectl get secret --namespace default grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo`

## Configure Grafana

The next step is to configure the plugin. Navigate to the Grafana homepage at `http://localhost:3000`

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.23.46 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.23.46%20PM.png)

Log in with the default username `admin` and the password you obtained from the kubectl command from the previous section.

On the Home Dashboard click the gear icon on the left side of the page.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.02 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.02%20PM.png)

Click **Add data source**.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.13 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.13%20PM.png)

 Choose **oracle-oci-datasource** as your data source type.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.24.24 PM](images/Screen%20Shot%202018-12-17%20at%203.24.17%20PM.png)

Fill in your **Tenancy OCID**, **Default Region**, and **Environment**. Your **Default region** is the same as your home region listed in the **Tenancy Details** page. For **Environment** choose **OCI Instance**. 

Click **Save & Test** to return to the home dashboard.

![Screen Shot 2018-12-17 at 3.25.33 PM](images/Screen_Shot_2019-02-08_at_10.19.56_AM.png)

## Next Steps

Check out how to use the newly installed and configured plugin in our [Using Grafana with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Source](docs/Using%20Grafana%20with%20the%20Oracle%20Cloud%20Infrastructure%20Data%20Source.md) walkthrough.
